GitHub - qmonnet/awesome-ebpf: A curated list of awesome projects related to eBPF. · GitHub
https://github.com/qmonnet/awesome-ebpf

<!DOCTYPE html>

GitHub - qmonnet/awesome-ebpf: A curated list of awesome projects related to eBPF. · GitHub

Skip to content

Navigation Menu

Toggle navigation

Sign in

Appearance settings

Search or jump to...

Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests...

Search

Clear

Search syntax tips 

Provide feedback

We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.

Include my email address so I can be contacted

Cancel

Submit feedback

Saved searches

Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly

Name

Query

To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.

Cancel

Create saved search

Sign in

Sign up

Appearance settings

Resetting focus

You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.

Dismiss alert

{{ message }}

qmonnet

/

awesome-ebpf

Public

Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings

Fork
435

Star
5.1k

qmonnet/awesome-ebpf

 main

BranchesTags

Go to file

Code
Open more actions menu

Folders and files

NameName
Last commit message

Last commit date

Latest commit

 

History
135 Commits

135 Commits

.github

.github

 

 

.gitattributes

.gitattributes

 

 

CODEOWNERS

CODEOWNERS

 

 

LICENSE

LICENSE

 

 

code-of-conduct.md

code-of-conduct.md

 

 

contributing.md

contributing.md

 

 

package.json

package.json

 

 

readme.md

readme.md

 

 

yarn.lock

yarn.lock

 

 

View all files

Repository files navigation

Awesome eBPF 

A curated list of awesome projects related to eBPF.

BPF, as in Berkeley Packet Filter, is an in-kernel virtual machine running programs passed from user space. Initially implemented on BSD, then Linux, the (now legacy) "classic BPF" or cBPF machine would be used with tools like tcpdump for filtering packets in the kernel to avoid useless copies to user space. The BPF infrastructure in Linux was completely reworked and gave life to eBPF, which gained new features (safety and termination checks, JIT-compiling for programs, persistent maps, a standard library, hardware offload support, etc.) and is now used for many tasks. Processing packets at a very low level (XDP), tracing and monitoring events on the system, or enforcing access control over cgroups are but a few examples to which eBPF brings performance, programmability and flexibility.

Cilium has a great website about eBPF called ebpf.io. It serves a similar purpose to this list, with an introduction to eBPF and links to related projects.

Note: eBPF is an exciting piece of technology, and its ecosystem is constantly evolving. We'd love help from you to keep this awesome list up to date, and improve its signal-to-noise ratio in anyway we can. Please feel free to leave any feedback.

Contents

Reference Documentation

Articles and Presentations

Tutorials

Examples

eBPF Workflow: Tools and Utilities

Projects Related to eBPF

eBPF in Security

The Code

Development and Community

Other Lists of Resources on eBPF

Acknowledgement

Reference Documentation

eBPF Essentials

ebpf.io - A gateway to discover all the basics of eBPF, including a listing of the main related projects and of community resources.

Cilium's BPF and XDP Reference Guide - In-depth documentation about most features and aspects of eBPF.

docs.ebpf.io - Providing technical documentation for eBPF.

Kernel Documentation

BPF Documentation - Index for BPF-related documentation coming with the Linux kernel.

linux/Documentation/networking/filter.rst - eBPF specification (somewhat outdated; information should still be valid, but not exhaustive).

BPF Design Q&A - Frequently Asked Questions on the decisions behind the BPF infrastructure.

HOWTO interact with BPF subsystem - Frequently Asked Questions about contributing to eBPF development.

Manual Pages

bpf(2) - Manual page about the bpf() system call, used to manage BPF programs and maps from userspace.

tc-bpf(8) - Manual page about using BPF with tc, including example commands and samples of code.

bpf-helpers(7) man page - Description of the in-kernel helper functions forming the BPF standard library.

Other

RFC 9669 BPF Instruction Set Architecture - IETF specification for eBPF

Jesper Dangaard Brouer's documentation - Work in progress, contributions welcome.

Emails from David Miller to the xdp-newbies mailing list:

bpf.h and you...

Contextually speaking...

BPF Verifier Overview

List of BPF features per kernel version

A List of Research Papers

Articles and Presentations

Generic eBPF Presentations and Articles

If you are new to eBPF, you may want to try the links described as "introductions" in this section.

A brief introduction to XDP and eBPF - An accessible introduction providing context, history, and details about the functioning of eBPF.

An eBPF Overview - Blog series by Adrian Ratiu, covering many aspects of the eBPF infrastructure:

Part 1: Introduction

Part 2: Machine & Bytecode

Ferris Ellis's blog posts about eBPF - They have a few posts about eBPF:

Part 1: Past, Present, and Future

Part 2: Syscall and Map Types

A BPF reference guide - About BPF C and bcc Python helpers, from bcc repository.

The BSD Packet Filter - An introduction mostly covering the tracing aspects.

BPF: tracing and more - An introduction mostly covering the tracing aspects.

Linux BPF Superpowers - An introduction mostly covering the tracing aspects, first part with flame graphs.

IO Visor - Also introduces IO Visor project.

BPF -- in-kernel virtual machine - Presentation by the author of eBPF.

Extending extended BPF - A blog post from 2014 on the development of BPF and demonstrating what can be done with it, using an example of stateful socket filtering by attaching an eBPF program to a socket.

Greg Marsden made some documentation about eBPF:

A Tour of Program Types - A description of all existing hooks for BPF program types, and of their interest.

BPF helper functions - A review of the kernel functions that can be called from within eBPF programs.

Communicating with Userspace - How BPF communicates with userspace - BPF maps, perf events, bpf_trace_printk.

Building BPF Programs - Setting up your environment to build BPF programs.

The BPF Bytecode and the BPF Verifier - How does BPF ensure that programs are safe?

Using BPF to do Packet Transformation - One eBPF usage about packet transformation.

Linux Kernel Observability through eBPF - A blog post covering the basics of eBPF as well as code samples in Go on how to build and load a minimal eBPF program into the kernel.

eBPF - From a Programmer's Perspective - A short paper describing the fundamentals of eBPF and how to get started with writing eBPF programs.

Cloudflare's blog posts on eBPF - Different blog posts about networking use cases and low-level aspects of eBPF.

Linux Extended BPF (eBPF) Tracing Tools - An in-depth collection of information around examples of performance analysis tools using eBPF. Contains also a section at the end of the page about other resources.

Beginner's guide to eBPF - A set of live-coding talks and the accompanying code examples, introducing eBPF programming using a variety of libraries and program types.

ebpf.io blog - Links to many community blogs posts.

BPF Internals

Daniel Borkmann has made several presentations and papers covering the internals of eBPF, in particular about its use with tc.

eBPF and XDP walkthrough and recent (2017) updates

Advanced programmability and recent updates with tc's cls_bpf - Details on eBPF, its use for tunneling and encapsulation, direct packet access, and more.

cls_bpf/eBPF updates since netdev 1.1 - Part of this tc workshop.

On getting tc classifier fully programmable with cls_bpf - Introduction to eBPF, including several features (map management, tail calls, verifier). The full paper is also available here.

Linux tc and eBPF

Linux Networking Explained - Linux networking internals, with a part about eBPF.

Kernel Tracing

Full-system dynamic tracing on Linux using eBPF and bpftrace - A detailed introduction to tracing with eBPF, from listing the available trace points to running bpftrace programs.

Meet-cute between eBPF and Kernel Tracing - Kprobes, uprobes, ftrace.

Linux Kernel Tracing - Systemtap, Kernelshark, trace-cmd, LTTng, perf-tool, ftrace, hist-trigger, perf, function tracer, tracepoint, kprobe/uprobe, and more.

Brendan Gregg's blog, and in particular Linux BPF Superpowers article.

XDP

The eXpress Data Path - A very accessible introduction to XDP, providing sample code to show how to process packets.

All XDP details in a technical paper: The eXpress Data Path: Fast Programmable Packet Processing in the Operating System Kernel, by Toke Høiland-Jørgensen, Jesper Dangaard Brouer, Daniel Borkmann, John Fastabend, Tom Herbert, David Ahern and David Miller, all being essential eBPF and XDP contributors.

Work-in-progress documentation for XDP

BPF and XDP Reference Guide - Guide from the Cilium project.

XDP Project overview

eXpress Data Path (XDP) - The first presentation about XDP.

eXpress Data Path - Contains some benchmark results obtained with the mlx4 driver.

Jesper Dangaard Brouer has several sets of slides describing the internals of XDP:

XDP − eXpress Data Path, Intro and future use-cases - Linux Kernel's fight against DPDK. Future plans (as of this writing) for XDP and comparison with DPDK.

Network Performance Workshop - Additional hints about XDP internals and expected evolution.

XDP – eXpress Data Path, Used for DDoS protection - Details and use cases about XDP, with benchmark results, and code snippets for benchmarking as well as for basic DDoS protection with eBPF/XDP (based on an IP blacklisting scheme).

Memory vs. Networking, Provoking and fixing memory bottlenecks - Advanced details about current memory issues faced by XDP developers.

XDP for the Rest of Us - How to get started with eBPF and XDP for normal humans. Also summarized by Julia Evans on her blog.

XDP now with REDIRECT - Update on XDP, and in particular on the redirect actions.

XDP workshop -- Introduction, experience, and future development (Video)

High Speed Packet Filtering on Linux - About packet filtering on Linux, DDoS protection, packet processing in the kernel, kernel bypass, XDP and eBPF.

How to drop 10 million packets per second - Cloudflare's blog post talking about their move to using XDP for packet filtering.

AF_XDP

AF_XDP - Kernel documentation on the AF_XDP address family.

Fast Packet Processing in Linux with AF_XDP

bpfilter

Why is the kernel community replacing iptables with BPF? - A blog post by Cilium on the motivations behind eBPF and bpfilter, with a couple examples and links to other projects using eBPF and bpfilter.

bpfilter: Linux firewall with eBPF sauce - Slides from a talk by Quentin Monnet with a background on eBPF and comparing bpfilter to iptables.

BTF

BPF Type Format (BTF) - Kernel documentation about BTF, explaining how to use it.

Enhancing the Linux kernel with BTF type information - A description of the work done with BTF to provide debugging information for BPF programs.

What is BTF (BPF Type Format) - A community-authored newsletter enriched with useful code illustrations and hands-on examples.

cBPF

The BSD Packet Filter: A New Architecture for User-level Packet Capture - The original paper about (classic) BPF.

The FreeBSD manual page about BPF

Linux' packet mmap(2), BPF, and Netsniff-NG

tc and cls bpf: lightweight packet classifying with BPF

Introducing Cloudflare's BPF Tools - Usage of BPF bytecode with the xt_bpf module for iptables.

Libpcap filters syntax

Hardware Offload

eBPF/XDP hardware offload to SmartNICs - Hardware offload for eBPF with TC or XDP (Linux kernel 4.9+), introduced by Netronome.

Comprehensive XDP offload---Handling the edge cases - An update on the topic above.

hBPF - eBPF in hardware - An eBPF CPU written for FPGAs.

OpenCSD eBPF SSD offloading - Computational Storage simulation (QEMU) platform with FUSE LFS filesystem for Zoned Namespaces NVMe SSDs using uBPF for compute kernel offloading, all in userspace.

Delilah: eBPF-offload on Computational Storage - Delilah is a Computational Storage Processor (CSP) built for eBPF offload to storage devices.

Tutorials

eBPF Party - Browser-based playground to learn, write, compile, and run eBPF programs.

bcc Reference Guide - Many incremental steps to start using bcc and eBPF, mostly centered on tracing and monitoring.

bcc Python Developer Tutorial - Comes with bcc, but targets the Python bits across seventeen "lessons".

Building BPF applications with libbpf-bootstrap - Helps generate minimal or advanced templates to bootstrap your own applications (kernel side and user space management for maps and programs) with features like CO-RE, global variables, and ring buffer.

How I ended up writing opensnoop in pure C using eBPF - A thorough walk-through of how to write eBPF programs, first using only bpf() syscall, and then libbpf library, with reproducible code examples.

Linux Tracing Workshops Materials - Involves the use of several BPF tools for tracing.

Tracing a packet journey using Linux tracepoints, perf and eBPF - Troubleshooting ping requests and replies with perf and bcc programs.

Open NFP platform - Operated by Netronome: some tutorials for network-related eBPF use cases, including an eBPF Offload Starting Guide.

XDP for the Rest of Us - First edition of a workshop to get started with XDP.

XDP for the Rest of Us - Second edition, with new contents.

XDP Hands-On Tutorial - A progressive (three levels of difficulty) tutorial to learn how to process packets with XDP.

All your tracing are belong to BPF - A step-by-step walkthrough to integrate tracing capabilities in your C++ applications with the LLVM libraries.

Firewalling with BPF/XDP: Examples and Deep Dive - A simple guide to build basic firewalls with TC and XDP.

A Deep Dive into eBPF: Writing an Efficient DNS Monitoring. - A detailed explanation of methods used to capture DNS requests at the socket filter layer.

eBPF Developer Tutorial - Learn eBPF by examples - Start with eBPF basics and progress to advanced topics using 20+ hands-on tutorials and examples. Covers performance, networking, and security with libbpf and CO-RE. Available in Chinese and English.

Catch Performance Regressions in eBPF - A step-by-step guide to benchmarking both the client and kernel eBPF code written in Rust.

Loops and Iterators in eBPF - Newsletter about all the ways to loop and iterate in eBPF.

What Insights Can eBPF Provide into Real-Time SSL/TLS Encrypted Traffic and How? - A step-by-step guide how eBPF can observe encrypted network traffic.

Can eBPF Detect Redis Message Patterns Before They Become Problems? - A step-by-step guide how eBPF can observe Redis communication between client and server.

Transparent Proxy Implementation using eBPF and Go - A step-by-step guide on how to implement a transparent proxy using eBPF.

eBPF-Powered Load Balancing - Learn how eBPF can infer custom load-balancing for services listening on the same port, through the SO_REUSEPORT TCP option.

Unit Testing eBPF Programs - Learn how you can unit test your eBPF programs using libbpf.

Accelerating Local Socket Communication using eBPF - Learn how eBPF can speed-up local socket communication up to 30%.

Writing a basic continuous profiler - A step-by-step guide to write an appliation continuous profiler leveraging the eBPF instrumentation, with a complete project as a reference.

Inspektor Gadget - Hello world gadget - An introductory guide to writing image-based eBPF gadgets and sharing them via OCI registries.

Inspektor Gadget - Hello world gadget with Wasm - An introductory guide to writing image-based eBPF gadgets and performing post-processing with WASM.

ebpf.io labs - List of community developed labs.

Examples

linux/samples/bpf/ - In the kernel tree: some sample eBPF programs.

linux/tools/testing/selftests/bpf - In the kernel tree: Linux BPF selftests, with many eBPF programs.

prototype-kernel/kernel/samples/bpf - Jesper Dangaard Brouer's prototype-kernel repository contains some additional examples that can be compiled outside of kernel infrastructure.

iproute2/examples/bpf/ - Some networking programs to attach to the TC interface.

Netronome sample network applications - Provides basic but complete examples of eBPF applications also compatible with hardware offload.

bcc/examples - Examples coming along with the bcc tools, mostly about tracing.

bcc/tools - These tools themselves can be seen as example use cases for BPF programs, mostly for tracing and monitoring. bcc tools have been packaged for some Linux distributions.

MPLSinIP sample - A heavily commented sample demonstrating how to encapsulate and decapsulate MPLS within IP. The code is commented for those new to BPF development.

ebpf-samples - A collection of compiled (as ELF object files) samples gathered from several projects, primarily intended to serve as test cases for user space verifiers.

ebpf-kill-example - A fully documented and tested example of an eBPF probe that logs all force-kills and prints them out in user-space.

redbpf examples - Example programs for using RedBPF to write eBPF programs in Rust.

XDP/TC-eBPF example - Program that uses XDP/TC-eBPF to provide statefull firewalling and socket redirection.

eBPF Workflow: Tools and Utilities

bcc

bcc - Framework and set of tools - One way to handle BPF programs, in particular for tracing and monitoring. Also includes some utilities that may help inspect maps or programs on the system.

Lua front-end for BCC - Another alternative to C, and even to most of the Python code used in bcc.

iproute2

iproute2 - Package containing tools for network management on Linux. In particular, it contains tc, used to manage eBPF filters and actions, and ip, used to manage XDP programs. Most of the code related to BPF is in lib/bpf.c.

iproute2-next - The development tree, synchronised with net-next.

LLVM

LLVM - Contains several tools used in eBPF workflows. Snapshots of the latest versions for Ubuntu/Debian can be retrieved from here.

clang is used to compile C to eBPF object file under the ELF format (clang v3.7.1+). The BPF backend was added with this commit.

llvm-objdump is used to dump the content of an object file in human-readable format, possibly with the initial C source code (llvm-objdump v4.0+).

llvm-mc is used to compile from LLVM intermediate representation to eBPF object file, so that one can compile from C to eBPF assembly, tinker with assembly, then compile to ELF file.

libbpf

libbpf - A C library used for handling BPF objects (programs and maps), and manipulating ELF object files containing them. It is shipped with the kernel and mirrored on GitHub.

libbpf-bootstrap - Scaffolding for BPF application development with libbpf and BPF CO-RE.

Go libraries

cilium/ebpf - Pure-Go library to read, modify and load eBPF programs and attach them to various hooks in the Linux kernel.

libbpfgo - eBPF library for Go, powered by libbpf.

Aya

aya - A pure Rust library for writing, loading, and managing eBPF objects, with a focus on developer experience and operability. It supports writing eBPF programs in Rust and distributing library code over crates.io to share it between eBPF programs. Aya does not depend on libbpf.

aya-template - Templates for writing BPF applications in Aya that can be used with cargo generate.

zbpf

zbpf - A pure Zig framework for writing cross platform eBPF programs, powered by libbpf and Zig toolchain.

eunomia-bpf

eunomia-bpf - A compilation framework and runtime library to build, distribute, dynamically load, and run CO-RE eBPF applications in multiple languages and WebAssembly. It supports writing eBPF kernel code only (to build simple CO-RE libbpf eBPF applications), writing the kernel part in both BCC and libbpf styles, and writing userspace in multiple languages in a WASM module and distributing it with simple JSON data or WASM OCI images. The runtime is based on libbpf only and provides CO-RE to BCC-style eBPF programs without depending on the LLVM library.

bpftool and Other Tools from the Kernel Tree

bpftool - Also some other tools in the kernel tree, under linux/tools/net/ for versions earlier than 4.15, or linux/tools/bpf/ after that:

bpftool - A generic utility that can be used to interact with eBPF programs and maps from userspace, for example to show, dump, load, disassemble, pin programs, or to show, create, pin, update, delete maps, or to attach and detach programs to cgroups.

bpf_asm - A minimal cBPF assembler.

bpf_dbg - A small debugger for cBPF programs.

bpf_jit_disasm - A disassembler for both BPF flavors and could be highly useful for JIT debugging.

User Space eBPF

uBPF - Written in C. Contains an interpreter, a JIT compiler for x86_64 architecture, an assembler and a disassembler.

A generic implementation - With support for FreeBSD kernel, FreeBSD user space, Linux kernel, Linux user space and macOS user space. Used for the VALE software switch's BPF extension module.

rbpf - Written in Rust. Interpreter for Linux, macOS and Windows, and JIT-compiler for x86_64 under Linux.

PREVAIL - A user space verifier for eBPF using an abstract interpretation layer, with support for loops.

wachy - A tracing profiler that aims to make eBPF uprobe-based debugging easier to use. This is done by displaying traces in a UI next to the source code and allowing interactive drilldown analysis.

eBPF on Other Platforms

eBPF for Windows - This project is a work-in-progress that allows using existing eBPF toolchains and APIs familiar in the Linux ecosystem to be used on top of Windows.

Testing in Virtual Environments

bcc in a Docker container

Projects Related to eBPF

Networking

P4 has some interactions with eBPF:

OvS Orbit episode (#11), called P4 on the Edge - Related to the former item. Audio interview of John Fastabend by Ben Pfaff, one of the core maintainers of Open vSwitch.

P4_16 backend for eBPF

Cilium project (GitHub repository) is a technology relying on eBPF and XDP to provide "fast in-kernel networking and security policy enforcement for containers based on eBPF programs generated on the fly". Many presentations available (with overlap):

Cilium: Networking & Security for Containers with BPF & XDP - Also featuring a load balancer use case

Cilium: Networking & Security for Containers with BPF & XDP - video

Cilium: Fast IPv6 container Networking with BPF and XDP

Cilium: BPF & XDP for containers

OvS Orbit episode (#4) - Interview of Thomas Graf by Ben Pfaff.

A generic introduction to Cilium

A podcast interviewing Thomas Graf - Ivan Pepelnjak interviewing Thomas, October 2016, on eBPF, P4, XDP and Cilium.

Katran - A layer 4 load-balancer based on XDP, open-sourced by Facebook.

XDP in practice: integrating XDP in our DDoS mitigation pipeline - Protection against DDoS with XDP at Cloudflare.

Droplet: DDoS countermeasures powered by BPF + XDP - Protection against DDoS with XDP at Facebook.

DPDK has a poll-mode driver (PMD) based on AF_XDP

CETH for XDP - Common Ethernet Driver Framework for faster network I/O, a technology initiated by Mellanox.

Suricata, an open source intrusion detection system, relies on eBPF components for its "capture bypass" features:

"eBPF and XDP" section of Suricata documentation

SEPTun-Mark-II - Extreme Performance Tuning guide - Mark II.

A blog post introducing the "capture bypass" feature

The adventures of a Suricate in eBPF land

eBPF and XDP seen from the eyes of a meerkat

Project Calico - Calico is an open source networking and network security solution for containers, virtual machines, and native host-based workloads. Calico's eBPF data plane delivers a low latency, high throughput data plane with a rich network security policy model.

Enabling eBPF data plane with Calico

merbridge - Use eBPF to speed up your Service Mesh. Merbridge replaces iptables rules with eBPF to intercept traffic. It also combines msg_redirect to reduce latency with a shortened datapath between sidecars and services.

PcapPlusPlus - An open-source C++ library for capturing, parsing and crafting network packets. It features a C++ interface for creating AF_XDP sockets, making it easy to send and receive packets through them.

ApFree WiFiDog - A high performance and lightweight captive portal solution for wireless networks. It leverages eBPF for traffic control and deep packet inspection capabilities, with plans to gradually replace nftables firewall functionality with eBPF-based solutions.

ipx_wrap - A proof-of-concept IPX implementation for Linux using eBPF.

Observability

InKeV: In-Kernel Distributed Network Virtualization for DCN

DEEP-mon - Helps with measuring power consumption for servers and uses eBPF programs for in-kernel aggregation of data.

pixie - Observability for Kubernetes using eBPF. Features include protocol tracing, application profiling, and support for distributed bpftrace deployments.

SkyWalking Rover - Apache SkyWalking is an open-source Application Performance Monitoring (APM) platform specially designed for distributed systems with microservices, cloud-native and container-based (Kubernetes) architectures. SkyWalking Rover is an eBPF-based profiler and metrics collector for C, C++, Golang, and Rust applications.

parca-agent - eBPF based always-on continuous profiler for analysis of CPU and memory usage, down to the line number and throughout time.

rbperf - Sampling profiler and tracer for Ruby.

rstat - Sub-millisecond system monitoring using eBPF tracepoints on sched_switch, sched_process_exit, and sched_process_free, with zero heap allocations in steady state.

Hubble - Network, service and security observability for Kubernetes using eBPF.

Ingero - eBPF-based GPU causal observability agent. Traces CUDA Runtime and Driver APIs via uprobes and host kernel events via tracepoints to build causal chains explaining GPU latency, with <2% overhead.

Caretta - Instant Kubernetes service dependency map generated by eBPF, right to a Grafana instance.

kpod-metrics - eBPF-based pod-level kernel metrics collector for Kubernetes. Exports per-pod CPU, network, memory, syscall, disk I/O, and L7 protocol metrics to Prometheus. BPF programs are defined using a Kotlin DSL instead of C.

DeepFlow - Instant observability for cloud-native and AI applications based on eBPF.

Coroot - Coroot is an open-source APM and observability tool, a DataDog and NewRelic alternative.

kyanos - Kyanos is an eBPF-based network issue analysis tool that enables you to capture network requests, such as HTTP, Redis, and MySQL requests.

eTraceGen - eTraceGen is a Linux telemetry engine built with eBPF and Modern C++ that captures kernel-level events for processes, files, system calls, and network with a modular pipeline for decoding, enrichment, filtering, and JSON output.

Security

Falco - A cloud-native runtime security project used as a Kubernetes threat detection engine.

Sysmon for Linux - A security monitoring tool. It depends on SysinternalsEBPF.

Red Canary Linux Agent - Red Canary has started to incorporate eBPF to their Linux security sensor.

Tracee - A runtime security and forensics tool for Linux which uses eBPF technology to trace the system and applications at runtime, and analyze collected events to detect suspicious behavioral patterns.

redcanary-ebpf-sensor - A set of BPF programs that gather security relevant event data from the Linux kernel. The BPF programs are combined into a single ELF file from which individual probes can be selectively loaded, depending on the running operating system and kernel version.

bpflock - Lock Linux machines - An eBPF driven security tool for locking and auditing Linux machines.

Tetragon - Kubernetes-aware, eBPF-based security observability and runtime enforcement.

harpoon - Trace syscalls from user-space functions, by using eBPF.

Synapse - Extended detection and response (XDR) with eBPF-powered firewall and proxy, to protect your Linux servers.

BPFJailer - BpfJailer is an eBPF-based process jailing system that provides mandatory access control (MAC) for Linux.

Bombini - An eBPF-based security agent written entirely in Rust using the Aya library and built on LSM (Linux Security Module) BPF hooks.

owLSM - Open source agent that implements a stateful Sigma rules engine focused on monitoring and prevention using eBPF LSM.

Inner Warden - A self-defending security agent for Linux and macOS that uses eBPF with 22 kernel hooks (tracepoints, kprobes, LSM, XDP) via the Aya library for real-time threat detection, automated response, and AI-powered triage.

Linux Scheduler

scx - sched_ext schedulers and tools.

Gthulhu - Gthulhu optimizes cloud-native workloads using the Linux Scheduler Extension for different application scenarios.

Tools

ply - A small but flexible open source dynamic tracer for Linux, with features similar to the bcc tools, but with a simpler language inspired by awk and DTrace.

bpftrace - A tool for tracing with its own high-level tracing language. It is flexible enough to be envisioned as a Linux replacement for DTrace and SystemTap.

bpftrace Cheat Sheet - Summary and cheat sheet for programming in bpftrace. Contains information about syntax, probe types, variables and functions.

kubectl trace - A kubectl plug-in for executing bpftrace programs in a Kubernetes cluster.

inspektor-gadget - A collection tools and framework for data collection and system inspection on Kubernetes clusters and Linux hosts using eBPF.

bpfd - Framework for running BPF programs with rules on Linux as a daemon. Container aware.

BPFd - A distinct BPF daemon, trying to leverage the flexibility of the bcc tools to trace and debug remote targets, and in particular devices running with Android.

adeb - A Linux shell environment for using tracing tools on Android with BPFd.

greggd - System daemon to compile and load eBPF programs into the kernel, and forward program output to socket for metric aggregation.

FUSE - Considers using eBPF.

upf-bpf - An in-kernel solution based on XDP for 5G UPF.

redbpf - Tooling and framework to write eBPF code in Rust efficiently.

ebpf-explorer - A web interface to explore system's maps and programs.

ebpfmon - A TUI (terminal user interface) application for real time monitoring of eBPF programs.

bpfman - An eBPF Manager for Linux and Kubernetes. Includes a built-in program loader that supports program cooperation for XDP and TC programs, as well as deployment of eBPF programs from OCI images.

ptcpdump - A process-aware, eBPF-based tcpdump-like tool.

oryx - A TUI for sniffing network traffic using eBPF on Linux.

GhostScope - A DWARF-aware eBPF tracer for source-level userspace tracing, with an interactive TUI and a scriptable CLI.

AgentSight - Zero-instrumentation eBPF observability for LLM and coding agents, capturing syscall-level traces (file, network, process) without modifying the agent.

ActPlane - OS-level agent harness that compiles a policy DSL to an in-kernel eBPF engine for labeled information-flow control at the syscall boundary, enforcing constraints across any tool or subprocess.

eBPF in Security

Embrace The Red: Offensive BPF! - A series of posts around the introduction into BPF with a focus to an offensive setting, and also how its misuse can be detected. Posts include discussions on the rootkit capabilities of eBPF, or on which tracing type is needed for different use cases.

eBPF: Block Linux Fileless Payload "Malware" Execution with BPF LSM - Blog post about how BPF can help detection and blocking fileless malware.

Blackhat 2021: With Friends Like eBPF, Who Needs Enemies? - Talk about an eBPF rootkit and how the capabilities of eBPF could be abused. The rootkit was also the object of a talk at Defcon, eBPF, I thought we

[… truncated 3966 chars …]